Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the bit wise left shift operator
So it is used to shift the binary
sequence to the left side by specified number of positions
So see an example, take the number 40 but it is a
decimal number so translate into a binary sequence
And we get 1110 and write it in eight bit
format
So we get 0001110 So we have 14 left shift
So the binary sequence will be shifted to the left
side by one position like this and the cells
which are empty will be marked zero at last and
the result will be 00011100 decimal equivalent is 28
So the result of 14 left shift 1 is  28
Now we have 14 left shift 2. so we need to shift
the binary sequence 2 position to the right and we
have already shifted one time and now we only need
to shift once again
So we will get 00111000 whose binary equivalent is 56
So 14 left shift 2 is equal to 56 now
There is one interesting thing here when we left shifted
14 to 1 position
The result was 28 which is equal to 14 x 2
And when we left shifted 14 to 2 positions then the result
was 56 which is equal to 14x4
So there is this general formula, that if we shift
a number by N times to the left, the output
will be the number x 2^N
Example
Let the number be 12 and we need to left shift it by 3
positions
So by our formula it will be equal to 12 x
2^ 3 that is 12x8 and we
get 96
Now see a programme. In the main function first
we are declaring an integer var =2  and we are
printing var into two equal to var left shift one
and 4 will be printed
Next we have var x 4 equal to var left
shift 2 and 8 will be printed and next print
function will be printing var x 8 equal to
var left shift 3 and 16 will be printed and that
is how it works
So that's all and thank you for watching this video